docs/index.md, before:

--- 
title: "RAP Companion"
author: ["Matthew Gregory, Matthew Upson"]
date: "2017-06-11"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
documentclass: book
bibliography: [book.bib]
biblio-style: apalike
link-citations: yes
cover-image: "images/cover.png"
twitter-handle: mammykins_
github-repo: mammykins/rap-companion
url: https://github.com/mammykins/rap-companion
description: "A technical communication document intended to give assistance to people developing a Reproducible Analytical Pipeline."
---

# Preface {-}

<a href="https://gdsdata.blog.gov.uk/2017/03/27/reproducible-analytical-pipeline/" target="_blank"><img src="images/cover.png" style="display: block; margin: auto;" /></a>

Producing official statistics for publications is a key function of many teams across Government. It’s a time consuming and meticulous process to ensure that statistics are accurate and timely. With open source software becoming more widely used, there’s now a [range of tools](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/technology/choosing-technology-an-introduction) and techniques that can be used to reduce production time, whilst maintaining and even improving the quality of the publications. This book is about these techniques: what they are, and how we can use them.  

This book was inspired by and draws heavily from a Government Digital Service [blog post](https://gdsdata.blog.gov.uk/2017/03/27/reproducible-analytical-pipeline/) by Dr. Matthew Upson in the Better Use of Data team.

Commit message:

Add discovery phase considerations to Preface

docs/index.md, after:

--- 
title: "RAP Companion"
author: ["Matthew Gregory, Matthew Upson"]
date: "2017-06-12"
site: bookdown::bookdown_site
documentclass: book
bibliography: [book.bib]
biblio-style: apalike
link-citations: yes
cover-image: "images/cover.png"
twitter-handle: mammykins_
github-repo: mammykins/rap-companion
url: https://github.com/mammykins/rap-companion
description: "A technical communication document intended to give assistance to people developing a Reproducible Analytical Pipeline."
---

# Preface {-}

<a href="https://gdsdata.blog.gov.uk/2017/03/27/reproducible-analytical-pipeline/" target="_blank"><img src="images/cover.png" style="display: block; margin: auto;" /></a>

Producing official statistics for publications is a key function of many teams across Government. It’s a time consuming and meticulous process to ensure that statistics are accurate and timely. With open source software becoming more widely used, there’s now a [range of tools](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/technology/choosing-technology-an-introduction) and techniques that can be used to reduce production time, whilst maintaining and even improving the quality of the publications. This book is about these techniques: what they are, and how we can use them.  

## Discovery

> Something is better than nothing. 

This is NOT TRUE in the agile world; consider the opportunity cost^[the loss of other alternatives when one alternative is chosen].

## Inspiration

This book was inspired by and draws heavily from a Government Digital Service [blog post](https://gdsdata.blog.gov.uk/2017/03/27/reproducible-analytical-pipeline/) by Dr. Matthew Upson in the Better Use of Data team.
